Javadoc (orOriginally cased JavaDoc)[1] is a documentation generator created by Sun Microsystems for the Java language (now owned by Oracle Corporation) for generating API documentation in HTML format from Java source code. The HTML format is used for adding the convenience of being able to hyperlink related documents together.[2]

The "doc comments" format[3] used by Javadoc is the de facto industry standard for documenting Java classes. Some IDEs,[4] like IntelliJ IDEA, NetBeans and Eclipse, automatically generate Javadoc HTML. Many file editors assist the user in producing Javadoc source and use the Javadoc info as internal references for the programmer.

Javadoc also provides an API for creating doclets and taglets, which allows users to analyze the structure of a Java application. This is how JDiff can generate reports of what changed between two versions of an API.

Javadoc does not affect performance in Java as all comments are removed at compilation time. Writing comments and Javadoc is for better understanding the code and thus better maintaining it.
Like human languages, programming languages have different levels of writing difficulty; some are easy to write, while others require extensive computer knowledge to understand.  In…show more content…
There are three parts in a Java program that are essential for a program to run.  In every Java application, the code always starts with a class (where instructions are written) definition.  In the class there is a main method that passes specific requirement into the program.  Finally, other methods other than a main that act as functions are written to do specific tasks that the program requires. Three parts of Java

As mentioned earlier Java consists of many different parts, but, there are three that are usually the most important in Java.  They are; classes, methods and objects.  Classes are a blue print to creating objects that are used in the program.  Methods are Java statements that must be in a class, for a Java program to work, it has to have at least the “main ()” method.  Finally, objects store current states and also show their behavior when called through a method.



How a Java program works

Java is usually written in an Independent Development Environments (IDEs).  IDEs are programs that have all the resources of writing a program in one place.  Unlike C++, a language that is similar to Java, programs written in Java can be used in any operating system that can run Java Virtual Machine.  This makes Java one of the most versatile and widely used languages for commercial software programs and other fields.  The process of writing a Java
Get Access
Related
Java, Java And Java
1018 Words  | 5 Pages
Java 8 is one of the most notable changes to the Java programming language in Java history. Although profound, the changes enable developers to write programs more concisely, diminishing the complexity of verbose code. Our research uses Java 8 and its new functional features such as Functional Interfaces and Lambda Expressions to enable this Object Oriented Programming language to perform as a functional language. There are a number of advantages in legacy code migration such as improved code design

Read More
Essay on Comparison Of Java, Javascript, Java Applets And Java Beans
1821 Words  | 8 Pages
Comparison of Java, JavaScript, Java Applets and Java Beans Introduction Starting back in the early 1990's with the introduction of Java to the computer scene there has been many updates and advances in how languages interact with web based programs. In this paper we are going to highlight several areas of several different Java flavors. The flavors we are addressing are Java, JavaScript, Java Applets and JavaBeans. We will discuss their history, features, usage and syntax and finally follow

Read More
Java Programming
1990 Words  | 8 Pages
Introduction Java was developed by a team led by James Gosling at Sun Microsystems. Originally called Oak, it was designed in 1991 for use in embedded consumer electronic appliances. In 1995, renamed Java, it was redesigned for developing Internet applications. Java is a full-featured, general-purpose programming language that is capable of developing robust mission-critical applications. Today, it is used not only for Web programming, but also for developing standalone applications across platforms

Read More
Java Essay
896 Words  | 4 Pages
Java is an HLL (High Level Language) working on the concept of OOPs created by Sun Microsystems. Java keeps running on various OS platforms, for example, Windows, Mac OS, and the different forms of UNIX. This instructional exercise gives an entire comprehension of Java. This reference will take you through straightforward and reasonable methodologies while learning Java Programming dialect. Difference between Java & Other (C,C++) • JAVA vs C: C is a procedural language while JAVA is based on OOPs

Read More
Java Programming
1156 Words  | 5 Pages
JAVA Programming PAPER Q1. A template argument is preceded by the keyword ________. ► vector ► class ► template ► type* Q2. Which of the following causes run time binding? ► Declaring object of abstract class ► Declaring pointer of abstract class ► Declaring overridden methods as non-virtual ► None of the given Q3. A function template can not be overloaded by another function template. ► True ► False Q4. Which of

Read More
Java Essay
1358 Words  | 6 Pages
6. TECHNOLOGIES TO BE USED • JAVA: Java has been tested, refined, extended, and proven by a dedicated community of Java developers, architects and enthusiasts. Java is designed to enable development of portable, high-performance applications for the widest range of computing platforms possible. By making applications available across heterogeneous environments, businesses can provide more services and boost end-user productivity, communication, and collaboration— and dramatically reduce

